----
title: thoughts about the next months
----

i used some extra free time to think as freely and clearly as possible about the future.

i will live with scarce resources and high ambitions for the next three months to one year, so i can set goals for 2020, and the most frequent goal is abya yala followed by china and by personal achievements.

the scene in berlin is thriving in opportunities and contradictions.

location independence has been difficult to achieve and holding to it is uncomfortable.

the biggest problem with location independence seems to be its relation with the rest of society. while i remember several meaningful moments for me and the people around me, this would be a system to build from scratch as in the past i did not relate much with other nomads. i would argue that many people i know in berlin are doing a better job at turning privilege into something everyone can benefit from.

experience confirmed me in the idea that nomadism is hard or impossible to understand for the middle class and communicating a cultural alternative through this lifestyle could be a goal far beyond my means.

all my systems have evolved while i was pushing them to the limit. i went beyond my systems and involved friends and loved ones into the matters they could be concerned about, i looped in everyone i could and i thought was interested, i continue all conversations that get any engagement, sometimes i try to open new ones.

receiving the hospitality of niccolò in pisa seems to be a suitable option. pisa is a great place for studying and studying is the best way to approach challenges respectfully. it will be meaningful to meet him and other friends although it could be emotionally demanding. in any case money doesn't seem to be a problem to stay there for a while, which suits my current cycle.

pisa could also be a good step to come back to sicily and give it another chance around the beginning of 2019. staying there i could also think about alternatives and seize opportunities before getting too static. it would be a good place for a deep system update wrapping up some long-running processes. and it seems like people there would be happy to meet me again.

staying longer in berlin could also happen and it would still be a time for meaningful innovation engineering and conversations.

developing my career as a free professional is a challenge despite the success in 2018. i went through some kind of storm, i might want to keep my ship at an harbor for a while.

timeboxed slot elapsed.

